And The Last Lecture we learned how to pass static data.
Now let's say we have some dynamic data we have to fetch before a route can be displayed or can be rendered.
For example here on the servers that's a disservice.
Already have been loaded but once we click a server here and maybe I should look into demonstrators
I want to load the individual server from some backend.
So we are going to simulate that this takes a couple of milliseconds or seconds.
So how could this work if we have such a use case we need a resolver.
This also is a service just like can activate or can deactivate which will allow us to run some code
before a route is rendered.
Now the difference you can activate is that the resolver will not decide whether this route should be
rendered or not whether the component should be loaded or not.
There is soul.
There will always rendered a component in the end but it will do some pre-loading you could say it will
fetch some data decomposable then need later on.
Of course the alternative is to render the component or the target page instantly and in the on inetd
method of this page you could then fetch the data and display some spinner whilst you are doing so.
So that is an alternative but if you want to load it before actually displaying the route this is how
you would add such a resoldering.
So let's say for the single server here I will add it in the server file my server resolver.
And again this will be technically just be a service so I'll export my class here which will name server
resolver.
And now does has to implement the resolve interface provided by at a singular router resolve as a generic
type and it should wrap whichever item or data field you will get your will fetch here in the end.
So we will fetch a server here and therefore we should define the type here.
Now you could outsourced it into an interface or a model in general.
So we will know that a server will have an idea which is of type number that it will have a name which
is a string and a status which is a string.
So it is simply a type definition of wealth of thing this resolver will give us an end to what it will
resolve in the end.
Now the resolve interface requires us to implement the resoled method and this resolve method here now
takes two arguments the route.
So the activated route snapshot which you already know which you need to import from an angle or Coorg
and it will also provide us a state snapshot.
So the routers state snapshot which also needs to be imported from an angle or router.
These are the two information pieces to resolve Meffert gets by angular and in the end.
This then also has to return ever an observable which you need to import from our X-Trace observable
these absorbable will then also return this type here so we can copy this but since we're creating a
lot of overhead here we can also quickly define an interface year.
And that would of course be better to outsource this in its own file.
But let's quickly do it here.
So the interface for the server which has an ID of type number and then the name which is a string and
the status which is a string.
And now this allows us to simply use server here for it as a shortcut for this type.
So the observable should in the end give us back Saajan server.
So the server or we get a promise which in the end will return such a server or well just such a server
synchronously.
So this is what we will get back here and resolve.
So now we need to implement logic to get this back.
Now we have our service service here and there we have to get server method which will give us back
a server.
Now this clearly is some synchronous code.
It will run instantly here.
So there is nothing wrong with this code.
We will resolve this instantly.
And as you saw in your resolver that's fine.
One return possibility is to instantly return the data.
So the easiest thing we can do here is reach out to our server servers and for days we need to inject
it.
So we should provide our server service service like this.
That's a real hard word for me.
Service servers service like this.
And of course if you want to check a service into another service you have to add an injectable to it.
Make sure to import this from an English cohort.
Also make sure to import your own service service and with day is the easiest way to use this result
function to reach out to your service and their recall get server.
And now we need to know the idea of the server.
We have to fetch because that is what we do in the server component here in the end right there in on
in it.
We're getting this server right now.
So now we want to outsource this because let's say we want to do it before it loads.
The good thing is we do get to Routier it only is snapshot but this service year will actually run on.
Each time we rerun or around.
So Snapchat is all we need.
Unlike the component itself again this is executed each time so no need to set up an observable or something
like that.
So here we can access our route and there to Perrin's and then the ID and make sure to it with a plus
sign in front of it to an integer does this the easiest way of using this resolver which will do the
loading of our data in advance and now this would also work if this were to return an observable or
a promise.
So with asynchronous code for example and HTP request.
So this is our resolver which is resolver in place.
We of course now have to add it.
So first thing is in app Marchal we should add it to our providers our server resolver like this.
Make sure to also at the airport at the top and with that added.
Now we want you added to our routing module here for the route where we want to use it.
So lets say for this component here we add a number property the resolve property.
This takes a javascript object and here we map all the resolvers.
This is different to the other guards there we use arrays.
But for is solve a different approach is taken and you will see why in a second.
So here we have key value pairs of two resolvers.
We want to use.
So for the server and this name of the property is totally up to you.
We will use our server resolver
like this.
Make sure to import it to your at the top.
This will now map the data.
This resolver gives us back and remember it gives us back some data with this resolve method.
How to implement this method will be called by angular Windass routers loaded so the data it gives us
back here will be stored in this server object.
We will then have a way Lebel or in the server property we will have available in this to be loaded
component so Indes is to be loaded component in our server component.
Right now we get a server like this using the parents.
Well I will comment this out because now we use a resolver for this.
Thats the goal of the result.
And it makes even more sense if this is some asynchronous task of course.
So here we can easily get our server by binding data all observable.
So just like static data which you passed with these data object here with the state property you could
add to a route that data returned by your resolver will also go into this data baggage and its data
object you have in your to be loaded component.
So here we can listen to any changes and I'm setting up an observable here or I'm using the observable
here I should say because the server can change what we already are on the page as we have this side
menu.
This is why we also had to set up our route parens here dynamically.
And here we know we will get back our data of type data as learned before.
Make sure to import data from Angola router and now we know that we can simply assign our server to
server property in this component by binding to data server and now this name here is important.
This server here this name here of course has to match the name you use here.
When you assign your solver to some property.
So if you change the name here you have to change it when you retrieve the data.
Well if it is with this in place if we saved as with any sort of still running if we log in and go to
service and we click on a server you see this still works as intended.
It's still loads to server like before but now not using the parents here in the server component but
instead using a resolver before this again of course especially important when using asynchronous data